---
layout: post
title: "Same Singapore But Different"
subtitle: "singaporean ramblings on covid-19"
date:   2021-07-12 00:00:00 +0800
categories: essays
toc: true
---

{: .abstract}
This essay was **shortlisted** in the [SG75 Our Singapore Competition 2021](https://sg75.sg/archive/competition-themes/about-our-sg75-competition-2021-edition"). It talks about the various challenges that Singapore has faced within the past few months, as well as a few personal insights as to how the country of Singapore can thrive under such circumstances.

# Topic
**Sustainability: Building Resilience and Inclusiveness in Fighting COVID-19**
<br><br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;COVID-19 substantially changed the way of life for people of Singapore and countries globally. Singapore as a country has never faced a pandemic of this proportion. The SARS virus of 2003 pales in comparison to COVID-19. This may be a precursor of what is to come. Unfortunately, COVID-19 may not be the last major pandemic that will hit Singapore or the world. What is your vision and plan if it happens again? How will your reflections and experiences shape and encourage future Singaporeans? 

# Essay
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“With unity, we can do great things. Important things. We can right wrongs. We can put people to work in good jobs. We can teach our children in safe schools. We can overcome this deadly virus.”  

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On January 20, 2021, at approximately 11:52 AM EST, the newly-elected President of the United States Joe Biden articulated these words with conviction.  It is obvious that the United States of America and Singapore are separate countries, on opposite ends of the Earth, but his words during the inauguration speech not only shook the hearts of Americans, but it also tugged at the heartstrings of humans located all over the world, including many citizens here, living behind a blue surgical mask, in the humble abode of an island that is the Little Red Dot.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;All hell broke loose in 2020, and this wretched situation that all of us as a country lived in, dragged on to where we are today. In the span of 2 years, we Singaporeans have witnessed a blend of barbarousness and discomfiture, like an eternal mug of dirty and bitter coffee being forced into our gullets every day. The situation in Singapore started small, with only the first confirmed case reported by the 23rd day of January. As the days went by, more and more masks grew wings and glided out of hospitals, agonizingly making their way onto the faces of regular civilians. Cases gained traction, as Singapore hit the 100-case mark just a day before the start of March. Just a month after that, the total number of cases increased tenfold. On the 3rd of April, 2021, news of the 5th coronavirus-related death had made its way out of the Ministry of Health (MOH)’s press release, as hundreds of thousands of Singaporean families switched on their devices to watch a live broadcast on YouTube, wide-eyed and aghast, as the intangibly disquieting words of Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong rolled out of his tongue and dropped onto our dubious hearts like bitter metal spheres.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;With evidence of growing spread within our community and the everlasting risk of asymptomatic spread, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong announced the circuit breaker, a set of measures implemented from April 7th to May 4th, a set of measures that brought everything online, a set of measures that every Singaporean knows too well. Following the Prime Minister’s announcement, paranoid aunties and uncles from the north, the south, the east, the west, and the central flocked to their local supermarkets like the migration of a gaggle of geese, ignoring government officials and educated netizens who were profuse in assuring others that the groceries that we all know and love would still be in stock, even if there were news reports of the coronavirus slowing and shutting down international imports. The circuit breaker quickly put us into place, as students and employees alike whipped open their laptops, adjusted their cameras, and spoke into their microphones. Attractions and theme parks, museums and casinos, sports and recreational facilities were all locked, sealed, and fastened shut as the streets slowly became bare and deserted. Although essential sectors such as food, transportation, health, finance, technology, and other sectors were still kept open, many of us got to know every nook and cranny of our worn-down homes, all the while keeping a watchful eye on the daily number of cases, a number that only rose like the clouds in the sky, but never dwindled like the cars on the streets. On the 21st of April, the circuit breaker was to be extended to the beginning of June, as the total confirmed cases each day kept soaring higher and higher. Measures announced as part of the Solitary Budget were extended to May, costing Singapore an additional $3.8 billion. The June school holidays were brought forth to the 5th of May, as face-to-face lessons were scheduled to resume on June 2nd.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Occurrences analogous to the global pandemic kept spiralling and spiralling, as our daily habits were unconsciously shifted and contorted to this new, artificial lifestyle, our bodies and minds struggling to escape this new, real-world Cretan labyrinth. Arrests, arrests, and more arrests were made after ignorant people were ignorant of the phrase “Ignorantia juris non excusat”, as announcement after announcement about new initiatives rolled out by the government, prevalent and draconian safe management measures, and concerns regarding Leave of Absence (LOA), Stay Home Notice (SHN), quarantine measures and more made their way onto our phones, computers, and auditory news radios. Soon enough, measures were slowly lifted as Singaporean communities were allowed to interact with each other once again. Mask mandates, compulsory usage of TraceTogether (TT) and safe management measures prevented us from returning to a true normal, but let’s face it. Singapore will never return to a true normal. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As we continue to strengthen our efforts, our unity, and our sense of belonging, the coronavirus is slowly but surely diminishing day by day. The utmost vigilance demonstrated by Singaporeans and foreigners alike has helped us to shoo away the deadly, contagious virus. Though I expect that the virus will still last for a while, if not in Singapore then in other parts of the world, I am confident that we will rejoice in conviction and unison, and release a long-awaited sigh of relief. The still ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has taught many of us a lesson. COVID-19 is a virus of such a large magnitude that, when placed in a line graph along with SARS, the line that represents the number of SARS cases barely rises. As we faced the coronavirus and hoped for the best, we unconsciously demonstrated our pride and unity for this nation. Isn't it amazing? Our little red dot, barely visible on world maps and only gained independence 56 years ago, has brought together a population, nay, a united community of 5 million people to fend off COVID-19. As the vaccination doses roll out and become available to many, it really does seem that we are now approaching the endgame of this devastating mess.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;However, the coronavirus is only a foreboding warning. 6 years ago, when Microsoft CEO Bill Gates was asked what he was afraid of the most, he replied, "An epidemic that would be more infectious and would spread faster than Ebola did. This is the greatest risk of a huge tragedy. This is the most likely thing by far to kill over 10 million excess people in a year.” He had predicted that a global pandemic was on the horizon, and it would strike us down when we were the least prepared. He was correct. As of July 2021, the coronavirus has already infected more than 187 million people and unnecessarily taken the lives of more than 4 million people, 36 of which consists of Singaporeans. Even if the coronavirus ends, we cannot let our guard down. Given the situation of our current surroundings, it is extremely important that we remain vigilant and practise general self-hygiene. Viruses, pandemics, and pathogens of greater magnitude and enormity than what we are witnessing now would seem like a ridiculous and humoresque idea years ago, but now, we must steel ourselves in anticipation of that dangerous possibility.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Thankfully, many Singaporeans are now aware of what to do in the case of a larger, more calamitous, worldwide pandemic. We are resilient, hardy, and enduring. As a multi-racial country, we are also inclusive and uphold our pride and sense of nationality, regardless of race, language, or religion. Youths rise up and sing the National Anthem on days Monday to Friday, putting their fists over their hearts to signify that one is not just mindlessly repeating the phrase over and over without a sense of what is protruding out of one’s vocal cords, but instead, sincerely reciting the pledge with intents coming from one’s heart.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I have faith that we Singaporeans are experienced and ready for the next pandemic. Our reflections and perspectives during the COVID-19 have shaped who we are as individuals, and it has made many of us take a step back, and look at where we are today. As disastrous and cataclysmic as the coronavirus may be, it has changed us for the better, morphing our previously lax personality into an identity that is adamant, obstinate, unyielding, and steadfast. We now truly know what it means to Singaporeans; to uphold our nation with our heads up high and truly call ourselves fortunate to be living in this country is a feat that not every country’s citizens can achieve candidly. National pride is to countries what self-respect is to individuals: a necessary condition for self-improvement. Although Singapore may not possess the greatest amounts of power or riches nor the greatest amounts of grandeur or greatness, we truly have a conviction to flourish in our duties.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;However, in spite of the sheer importance of perseverance and the ways in which we withhold glory within our hearts, we cannot underestimate the potential dangers of a new global pandemic. Just like how we were certain that we could hold down our fort just like we did for SARS, the COVID-19 had taken advantage of our underestimations and breached that assuredness, as the swift transmission of the virus took its toll on several Singaporeans in the early months of 2020. This is the 2nd virus that Singapore has experienced. Accompanied by the rapid progression and evolution of the technology that we are able to access, we are more prepared for what is to come. Future pandemics may be impossibly large and difficult to manage, but as long as we Singaporeans stay observant and wary, we will undoubtedly be able to securely hold down our fort this time round. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;There is a sense of scientific and civic accomplishment that derives from how Singapore has managed to rise to the challenge and stave off the virus. However, we are still not prepared. The main reason why the coronavirus pandemic was able to propel itself forward was due to its tendency to travel across borders. For instance, the Zika virus was initially only able to be found in a relatively small area of the world. Now, it is found in 86 countries and territories. COVID-19 has taught us that we must be quick on our feet, and implement safety measures early instead of putting ourselves in potential danger due to slow and inefficient methods of dealing with the virus. Singapore requires more public support and public recommendation to bolster the practice of self-hygiene. More advocacy is required to ensure that we Singaporeans are aware of the latest news, as well as how to play a vital part in reducing the spread and transmission of future viruses. Healthcare and technology sectors must propel forward too; as artificial intelligence and quantum computing provide more use cases within the healthcare sector, Singapore must be ready to adopt these forms of technology and utilise them to the best of our advantage. We need more healthcare professionals and medical management employees to work on the frontlines, as well as a greater amount of resources directed towards better long-term care and hospital capacity. Our poor hawkers, merchants, and other store-owners have been financially impacted by the coronavirus. Sufficient financial help must be provided to keep businesses and cultures afloat. The coronavirus has taught us that infection prevention has really come to the forefront, and that we must pay more attention to the healthcare sector. It has also taught us that we must ensure the well-being of other essential workers, such as those dealing in the food sector, like hawkers, for the number of customers that they receive per day will ultimately dwindle, costing them large sums of money and leaving them struggling to catch a break.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We must also remember the World Health Organisation (WHO), an organisation that played a major and vital role in disseminating information about the coronavirus, as well as preventing the transmission of the virus, regardless of territory and borders. Other health organisations, such as Doctors Without Borders and the Ministry of Health require greater attention, as well as greater funding to allow them to achieve medical excellence, and further promote the importance of good health and reduced illnesses. The funds must come from governments all around the world, as well as global financial organisations such as the World Bank Group. Many countries spend billions upon billions of dollars towards government sectors such as military preparedness when that money should be diverted towards holistic education about health and science, as well as pushing healthcare workers forward in order to forestall and preempt future illnesses and pandemics.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Moreover, although funding and money are necessary for warding off future crises, no amount of research and scientific development can compensate for ineffective leadership and a lack of coordination within governments and international cooperation between countries. One of the glaring reasons why the coronavirus has infected more than 180 million people is due to an obvious failure of governance. Not to say that Singapore’s government has not been doing its part, but other countries have negligently dismissed the colossal urgency in stopping the spread and flattening the curve. A few world leaders have even declined the advice of professional scientists and virologists, outright defying the logical and scientific consultation brought forth by many. This has led to some world leaders themselves being tested positive for the coronavirus, thus disheartening citizens and damaging public confidence and public opinion. COVID-19 has brought attention to the necessity of working together as a nation, and international coordination and cooperation between governments in deterring the virus. There is a clear sense that preparing for the next pandemic will require a deep dive into failures within governments, and understanding what went wrong. Working together to improve the architecture of health security systems and governance is a necessary step in preparing for the next pandemic.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We must remind ourselves that we remain at risk for another virus within the foreseeable future. COVID-19 has forced us to plan ahead, as well as think collectively about living in more thoughtful and creative harmony with nature, even as we take our steps to fend off nature’s unexpected surprises. COVID-19 has taught us many lessons, ranging from how we, as a civic community, can play a part in reducing the number of coronavirus transmissions within our country, to being able to accurately gauge how prepared we are for the next crisis.

(2401 words)

# References
Cheong, D. (2020, April 22). Wage support will be extended to second circuit breaker month of May: DPM Heng Swee Keat. The Straits Times. <br>
<https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/health/wage-support-will-be-extended-to-second-circuit-breaker-month-of-may-dpm-heng-swee>

CNA. (2020, April 24). Civil servant arrested under Official Secrets Act over leak of COVID-19 case numbers. <br>
<https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/singapore/coronavirus-covid-19-official-secrets-act-leak-case-numbers-12671580>

Lai, L. (2020, April 22). Covid-19 circuit breaker to be extended by one month to June 1: PM Lee. The Straits Times. <br>
<https://www.straitstimes.com/politics/prime-minister-lee-hsien-loong-to-address-nation-on-covid-19-situation-at-5pm>

Loong, L. H. (2020, April 3). PM Lee Hsien Loong on the COVID-19 situation in Singapore on 3 April 2020. Prime Minister’s Office Singapore.<br>
<https://www.pmo.gov.sg/Newsroom/PM-Lee-Hsien-Loong-on-the-COVID19-situation-in-Singapore-on-3-April-2020>

Min, A. H. (2020, April 15). COVID-19: Compulsory to wear mask when leaving the house, says Lawrence Wong. CNA. <br>
<https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/singapore/covid19-wearing-masks-compulsory-lawrence-wong-12640828>

Ministry of Health, Singapore. (2020a, January 23). CONFIRMED IMPORTED CASE OF NOVEL CORONAVIRUS INFECTION IN SINGAPORE; MULTI-MINISTRY TASKFORCE RAMPS UP PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES. <br>
<https://www.moh.gov.sg/news-highlights/details/confirmed-imported-case-of-novel-coronavirus-infection-in-singapore-multi-ministry-taskforce-ramps-up-precautionary-measures>

Ministry of Health, Singapore. (2020b, February 29). THREE MORE CASES DISCHARGED, FOUR NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED. <br>
<https://www.moh.gov.sg/news-highlights/details/three-more-cases-discharged-four-new-cases-of-covid-19-infection-confirmed>

Ministry of Health, Singapore. (2020c, April 3). 3 April 2020 Daily Report on COVID-19. <br>
<https://www.moh.gov.sg/docs/librariesprovider5/default-document-library/situation-report---3-apr-2020.pdf>

Ministry of Health, Singapore. (2021, July 7). MOH | FAQs - Leave of Absence (LOA), Stay-Home Notice (SHN) and Quarantine Order (QO). <br>
<https://www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/faqs/faqs---leave-of-absence-(loa)-stay-home-notice-(shn)-and-quarantine-order-(qo)>

Qing, A. (2021, April 23). TraceTogether token or app mandatory at malls, workplaces, schools from June 1. The Straits Times. <br>
<https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/mandatory-use-of-tracetogether-token-or-app-for-checking-in-at-malls-workplaces-schools-to>

Teng, A. (2020, April 22). Coronavirus: June school holidays to start from May 5 to cover extended circuit breaker period, says MOE. The Straits Times. <br>
<https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/coronavirus-june-school-holidays-to-start-from-may-5-to-cover-extended-circuit-breaker>

The White House. (2021, January 21). Inaugural Address by President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. <br>
<https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/01/20/inaugural-address-by-president-joseph-r-biden-jr/>

TODAYonline. (2020a, April 3). Covid-19: Govt announces closures of non-essential workplaces, schools from April 7 and 8. <br>
<https://www.todayonline.com/singapore/non-essential-businesses-schools-be-shut-april-7-and-8-pm-lee>

TODAYonline. (2020b, April 21). Circuit breaker extended by four weeks to June 1: PM Lee. <br>
<https://www.todayonline.com/singapore/circuit-breaker-extended-four-weeks-june-1-pm-lee>

Vox. (2015, May 27). What Bill Gates is afraid of [Video]. YouTube. <br>
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9AEMKudv5p0>

Worldometer. (2021, July 12). Coronavirus Graphs: Worldwide Cases and Deaths - Worldometer. <br>
<https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/worldwide-graphs/#total-cases>