---
layout: post
title: "Communities and Us"
subtitle: "on the greatness of communities"
date:   2021-05-28 00:00:00 +0800
categories: essays 
toc: true
---


{: .abstract}
This essay received a **Gold** award in the [Queen's Commonwealth Essay Competition 2021](https://www.royalcwsociety.org/essay-competition). Contains thoughts on leaders, activism, change, and communities.

# Here's The Topic For Reference :)
"Discuss the following: 'The greatness of a community is most accurately measured by the compassionate actions of its members.'' – Coretta Scott King".

# Essay
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“The greatness of a community is most accurately measured by the compassionate actions of its members,” said Coretta Scott King, an American author and the wife of American civil rights activist Martin Luther King Jr.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Although Coretta Scott King died in 2006, her and her husband’s legacy to end injustice still plays a critical, essential role in modern society. Last year, we saw countries around the world struggling under mountainous conflicts, torrents of political and social unrest present in every nook and cranny. The prevalent coronavirus pandemic has divided many communities, as both groups and individuals took their own sides to ascertain the validity of rumours surrounding the disease. Apart from the global pandemic, we have witnessed a tornado of major events in 2020. The death of George Floyd and many other African-American individuals, such as Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery, sparked a worldwide movement to recognise the lives of people of colour, and to put an end to police brutality, white supremacy, and racism. World leaders insulted Donald Trump as he became the first president of the United States of America to be impeached twice following the Capitol storm earlier this year, causing the global image of the U.S. to plummet. Wildfires, earthquakes, floods, and even an explosion in Lebanon unfortunately took the lives of many innocents.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In this conflicting period of time where the priority of sticking together and supporting each other is greater than ever, there are some communities who stay strong and mighty, while others dwindle and weaken, strained relationships aplenty due to constant disagreements within the people. For an instance of a united community that has stayed true to its goal, the Black Lives Matter (BLM) community is a prime example. Established in 2013 in response to the acquittal of Trayvon Martin’s murderer, BLM has sent unwavering support and enthusiasm to the black community. The reason for their success? They constantly strive to make positive changes, while keeping their protests as peaceful as possible. An article by The New York Times looked into the changes that occurred a year after the death of George Floyd, and discovered that not only were there new, humane rules created to limit police tactics, but the BLM movement soared in terms of public sympathy. The BLM movement has also called for America to confront its structural racism. Not to mention, BLM has both bark and bite. In response to BLM, many companies such as McDonald’s and Amazon have pledged to hire more diverse workforces. More recently, Karine Jean-Pierre became the first black woman in 30 years to give a briefing at the White House. Therefore, the Black Lives Matter movement truly shows how tremendous and impactful a community can truly be. As BLM’s members seek to end racism by harmonious means, it is an impeccable illustration and demonstration of Coretta Scott King’s quote.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Communities can also focus on resolving environmental issues, rather than social issues. On April 22, 2017, an international series of rallies and marches named “The March for Science” was held. The march occurred in Washington, D.C., as well as more than 600 other cities across the world, according to The New York Times and The New Republic. The movement was instigated by the actions and views of Donald Trump, where he had called climate change a hoax and promised to remove anti-pollution laws within the United States of America, promising to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris Agreement on global climate mitigation and cut federal funding for numerous science and research agencies. President Trump’s words sparked outrage, especially scientists, environmentalists, activists, and those who took an avid interest in science. The March for Science drew around 1 070 000 participants globally, with around 100 000 participants gathering in the main march in Washington, D.C.. The initial organisation of The March for Science gained massive traction, as it was announced that famous science figures like Lydia Villa-Komaroff, Mona Hanna-Attisha, and even Bill Nye would be part of the national committee for The March for Science. The March for Science in 2017 was received with favourable criticism, as U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders expressed his gratitude and approval, encouraging scientists to continue raising awareness for climate change. University professors, Congress members, and other science groups soon followed, giving The March for Science their utmost support and sharing their feedback on the march. However, it is worth noting that the march was met with a torrent of criticism from conservative publications. William Happer, climate change denier and Donald Trump’s former science advisor dismissed the march as a cult, claiming that Trump was not against science. Even a handful of scientists were concerned with the movement, stating that they were worried the march would lead the public to view scientists as fueled by ideology rather than by evidence. From my perspective, I feel that The March for Science is beneficial for raising awareness about climate change, and it shows how members of science can come together and organise a benign rally. It shows the good parts of a community, and how the members of the public are able to do something good for society through their charitable arrangements.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But, alas, there is no rose without a thorn. Akin to the relationship between yin and yang, there are multiple adverse and unfavourable communities in the world. With close reference to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, a suitable example of a inimical community are those who are coronavirus skeptics, including the anti-vaccination community. Coronavirus skeptics are those who believe that the pandemic is a hoax, fabricating wild conspiracies as to the origin of the pandemic, and the hidden agendas laced within the government’s words. This community of people have been reported to spread fake news and forward misinformation to their close friends and family members according to credible news sources, such as The Guardian, CNA, and The Verge. Social media platforms such as Facebook and Instagram are popular picks for those looking to disseminate their conspiracies, due to the seemingly negligent lack of moderation on these social media platforms. These conspiracy theorists tend to disobey the words of the government, ignoring mask mandates and organising sizable amounts of protests and rallies on the street. Usually causing rackets in shopping malls by not wearing masks, coronavirus skeptics are generally disliked by the majority of online communities, as they tend to threaten the lives of others and themselves, while making even the most basic of communication levels difficult for the public.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Notwithstanding, a specific branch of these coronavirus skeptics have been around for a long period of time, even before the coronavirus. This division of individuals makes up the anti-vaccination community. Amid the pandemic, the anti-vaccination movement is being fuelled by the contagious misinformation, gaining traction in these times. The Straits Times inferred that the cause as to why the anti-vaccination community is going strong can be linked to the rushing of the vaccine, the continuity of the pandemic, and the general distrust among Trump’s and Biden’s words. The anti-vaccination community has grown so strong that Dr Barry Bloom, a professor of public health at Harvard University, stated that if one should wish to locate the nearest anti-vaccination movement, “just look for your nearest Whole Foods”. The message is humorous but the meaning is clear - the anti-vaccination community is larger than ever, with coronavirus skeptics organising protests around every corner. However, although the anti-vaccination community may be sizable, it does not necessarily mean that they are ethical and filled with positive morality. A quick Google search will easily tell you that anti-vaccinators and coronavirus skeptics are helping this highly feared and enormously disruptive disease to claim more victims. There are many who choose to be stubborn and insist on causing ruckus in society. Videos of anti-vaccinators not wearing masks in public, threatening others, and shouting incessantly have caused online communities on Reddit and Twitter to criticise the anti-vaccination community, as they seem to be doing more harm than good. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In conclusion, there are various communities in the world, all with varying goals and objectives of which they strive to achieve. Communities pertaining to ending racism include BLM and Stop AAPI Hate, while communities related to science can include ResearchGate and The Science Forum, and so on and so forth. The aforementioned communities have one thing in common - they aim to achieve positive outcomes. Anti-racist communities hope to create a better place for our later generations so that they are able to live in a world where society is not divided by one’s nationality or skin colour. STEM communities hope to provide a learning place where the public are able to ask questions and receive legitimate answers from experts. These communities have well-mannered members, hoping to provide support to others without asking for payment. Other communities can cause harm, but it is usually due to the impolite and disrespectful actions of their members that paint them in a bad light. All in all, Coretta Scott King’s words are true, even till today. 

(1500 words)